1. Sudha Rani Relangi appointed as Director of Prosecution in CBI


 
The Central Government has appointed Sudha Rani Relangi as the Director of Prosecution in the Central Bureau of Investigation. As per a Government of India Order dated August 9, Sudha Rani Relangi would serve as the Director of Prosecution for a period of two years with effect from the date of assumption of the charge of the post or until, whichever is earlier.

2. RBL Bank launches India’s first health-focused credit card

Private sector RBL Bank and digital healthcare platform Practo have partnered to launch an industry first co-branded health credit card. This credit card is powered by Mastercard and is available on both Practo and RBL mobile apps and websites.

3. Indian Bank signs agreement with Cholamandalam MS General Insurance

Public sector Indian Bank signed a corporate agency agreement with Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company for distribution of its insurance products to bank customers.

According to the agreement, Cholamandalam MS, a Murugappa Group company, would sell its range of insurance policies to customers of Indian Bank.

4. IFC and MIGA To Support Landmark Wind Farm on Egypt
IFC and MIGA, members of the World Bank Group, signed an agreement to support the development of a 252-megawatt wind farm by Lekela in Egypt’s Red Sea governorate. IFC will provide $84 million in financing while MIGA will offer $122 million in financial guarantees, helping to bolster the production of clean energy, lower generation costs, and diversify the country’s energy mix.

5. State Bank of India MD Dinesh Kumar Khara got an extension by years after a review of his performance
The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, Government of India extended the tenure of State Bank of India(SBI) Managing Director (MD)Dinesh Kumar Khara by another 2 years with effect from August 9, 2019.

He is appointed Managing Director of State Bank of India (SBI) for a period of three years on August 10, 2016. He holds a Board level position in supervising the businesses of SBI’s nonbanking subsidiaries.

6. NITI Aayog launches 4th edition of Women Transforming India Awards
NITI Aayog launched fourth edition of Women Transforming India (WTI) Awards. Nominations for the awards will be opened immediately after the launch. The theme for this year’s award is ‘Women and Entrepreneurship’, in continuation of the theme for WTI Awards 2018.

WhatsApp has collaborated with NITI Aayog for WTI Awards 2019 and will be providing support amounting to US $100,000 to award winners. Nominations for the awards will be opened immediately after the launch.

7. 10 August: World Biofuel Day
Every year 10 August is observed as World Biofuel Day with aim to create awareness about importance of non-fossil fuels as an alternative to conventional fossil fuels. It is being observed by Union Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas since 2015. On 10th August 2019, Petroleum & Natural Gas Ministry will organize World Biofuel Day at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi.

8. Colin Ackermann becomes the 1st player in the cricket history to claim a wicket
Colin Ackermann(28) plays for Leicestershire Foxes set the new T20(Twenty20) world record with seven wickets for just 18 runs (7-18) to victory by 55 runs against the Birmingham Bears in 2019 Vitality Blast. The event is held in Grace Road, England, and Wales.

9. Shah Rukh Khan presented with honorary doctorate by Australia’s La Trobe University
Superstar Shah Rukh Khan has been conferred with an honorary degree, Doctor of Letters, by the prestigious La Trobe University here.

The honour, which was presented to 53-year-old actor, aims to recognise his efforts to support underprivileged children, his dedication to the fight for women empowerment through his MEER foundation as well as his achievement in the Indian entertainment industry by former premier and chancellor of the university John brumby.

10. Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha drive launched to promote water conservation awareness among school students
Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha drive was launched to promote water conservation activities among school students by Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at Kendriya Vidyalaya Number 2 at Delhi Cantonment on August 9, 2019.

Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha drive was initiated by the Department of School Education and Literacy under the HRD Ministry to promote awareness about water conservation activities among school students in the country so that they can become more committed, conscientious and competent citizens.

11. BCCI agrees to come under NADA, cricketers to undergo doping tests
The BCCI after years of opposition has finally agreed to come under the ambit of the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA). The BCCI stated in writing that it would adhere to NADA’s anti-doping policy.