Regression:
Should they charge a fee or give a rebate for use of the online channel?
online customers are more profitable?

Summary statistics:
    customers: 5 million
	sample size: 31634 (less than 1% of the customers !0.63%)
	Total profit: $35,27276
	Avg profit per customer: $111.50
	std: $272.83 - Always use std while quoting the average 

standard deviation: some customers more profitable and some are less profitable- high variablity
If high variability - don't trust just the average

Sample: subset of the totoal population
Larger the samples the better the estimates
population is : set of all the elements that the study is interested

Draw inferences: as long as drawan sample is representative enoughs of total population. 
we can draw inferences closer to the total population and will be free from bias.

Sampling and Estimation:
Simple random sampling: equal chances of any memeber being present in the drawn sample
stratifiedified sampling:  Not every memeber of the population is similar
        Male and female pay disparity: picking samples from Male(60/100) and Famale(40/100) categories. 
		Picking samples individually from corresponding categories is again the simple random sampling

Estimating population parameters:  average, percentages (%) (election), std
Sample estimates: compute avg of the sample and use it for estimating for population
	point estimates: avg work Ex of a SMP-16 batch can be computed from randomly drawn samples say 5 samples
					 avg 14.5 std 5, avg 17, std 2 of two different samples
					 Sample mean: Avg profit per customer: $111.50 in our use case - piligrim bank
	interval estimates: confidence intervals: provides a range within which real population mean is likely to lie.
					 cost of being wrong is very high - widest possibilities in case of the range
					 what are the chances that the average customer profit considreling all of the 6 million customers is same as $111.50 ?
					 probability/confidence: 0
					 confidence: probablity that the interval contains the real mean
								 higher the confidence the more chances of contating the real mean
	interval range: wider the range the lesser help it provides in decision making, the narrower the better.
					decision differs based on range of the intervals
					the more accuracy  the widest the interval Eg: 99%  ; with 90% the interval is narrower
					tradeoff between confidence intervals and width
					lower confidence limit and upper confidence limit Eg: 200 is lower and 210 is higher confidence limits in the range [200,210]
					confidence levels: 95%,90%,99%
					
					confidence interval comes from central limit theorem - standard normal distribution
					If decision differs at lower and higher level limits then it is too wide.
	

Exploratory data analysis:

profitable customers: 16832 (53%)
				47% are loss making - pulling the total and average profit down
				Telcom and airline industries are making losses
				how do we chose profit making customers?  based on historical transaction, revenue, profit etc
				how do you serve loss making customers? calls unattended, levy high charges, limiting online offers
profit distribution:
				profitable customers have high variation
				
				
scatter plot:  linear or non-linear relationship between dependent and predictor variables




				
				
				


	
					 

            









	